[Music]
thunderstorms tornadoes and other kinds
of severe weather may seem beautiful and
mesmerizing but you should never forget
that they can also be an extremely
dangerous phenomena surely I'm not
saying to hole up every time you hear
thunder but it only makes sense to go
inside when the storm starts brewing
however even indoors
there are 19 things you must never do
during severe weather if you want to
stay safe never take a shower the thing
is that when a thunderstorm is raging
outside the electrical currents created
by lightning can travel through the
water pipes in your house as a result
well your shower could be shocking or
the lightning ball could start a fire in
your home never use a landline I must
admit that nowadays you'll have to try
pretty hard to find a corded phone
whatsoever but if you manage to avoid
talking on this type of phone during a
lightning storm it can easily get inside
your house not only through your water
and plumbing systems but also through
the wiring so hold that thought until
the storm passes
never leave a plastic water container on
a concrete floor if you keep your water
supply in plastic containers in a place
with a concrete floor store them either
on a wooden pallet or on a piece of
cardboard first of all if it's a garage
there might be oil spills on the floor
on top of that the concrete itself
contains tons of chemicals used during
its production if any of these
substances leach into your water supply
they can make it unsafe to drink never
ignore the state of your hair no really
let's say you're standing outside of
your home admiring the approaching
thunderstorm but suddenly you notice
something bizarre your hair is standing
on end don't ignore this phenomenon it's
your clue that you should get inside the
house right away when the positive
charge of your body interacts with a
negative charge of the storm it makes
your hair stand up
unfortunately if you don't get indoors
you could get struck by lightning never
like candles the problem with candles is
that they can also start a fire but
during a bad storm there might not be
phone service and as a result you won't
be able to get through to the fire
department and they won't be able to
reach your house also fire hydrants
might not be working to avoid all these
worst-case scenarios use flashlights
which also produce more light than
candles never do the dishes once again
during a thunderstorm never get anywhere
near a tap be it in the bathroom or in
the kitchen keep in mind that touching
and electrified faucet can lead to very
dramatic consequences never evacuate
during a tornado as soon as you hear a
tornado warning immediately hide either
in the innermost room of your house or
in the basement seriously I mean it
put down that car key and do not try to
outrun the destructive force of nature
never run generators indoors it may seem
like a generator is one of the most
irreplaceable things during a blackout
caused by a severe storm in reality
though the idea of using it indoors may
turn out to be the worst in your life a
generator engine just like any other
combustion engine emits carbon monoxide
a harmful gas that can cause a splitting
headache and make you pass out in most
cases people rarely survive big doses of
this gas
[Music]
never leave your pets outside of course
you shouldn't bring your animals inside
during a thunderstorm that's the only
way to keep them safe if your dog is
chained to a tree and lightning hits it
your pooch won't survive the electric
current a dog house isn't proper
protection either especially if it's
made of wood which burns unnerving ly
fast never stand near a window and no
it's not because of the lightning
contrary to popular belief by standing
at the window during a severe storm you
put yourself at risk of getting hurt by
shattered glass even though this
material doesn't conduct electricity
well enough to hurt you the force from
the strike can shatter the window on the
other hand some windows do contain metal
parts that conduct electricity in this
case if you touch them or stand too
close when lightning strikes you can get
a charge out of it never open a window
if you're one of those people who
believe that opening windows during a
storm equalizes the pressure and
prevents them from shattering it might
be time to revise your beliefs experts
state that this is nothing but a myth
and all you'll achieve by opening the
windows is letting fierce winds into the
house never keep your laptop plugged if
you need to do some urgent work on your
laptop and a storm is raging outside
make sure that your computer isn't
plugged into the wall just like with a
corded phone an electric current can
rush through the power cord and not only
destroy your device but also hurt you by
the way if power is lost go and unplug
all the electric devices in the house
otherwise when the power is restored a
power surge can cause damage to your
appliances or even lead to a fire never
over use your fridge first of all the
fridge is just another kind of electric
appliance you should stay away from
during a storm
[Music]
secondly if there's a power failure
you'll want to keep your fridge as cold
as possible for as long as you can right
but every time you open it it gets
warmer and warmer inside never board up
your windows the right time to board up
your windows is before a storm arrives
but if you wait until the last moment
gusts of wind can blow the boards out of
your hands turning them into life
threatening projectiles try to find out
the weather forecast for the next couple
of days in advance and if a severe storm
is approaching board your windows up
beforehand never turn your TV and radio
off at once you're relaxing on the sofa
with a remote control in your hand and
your favorite TV show on the screen but
suddenly an urgent voice interrupts it
to announce that some severe weather is
coming do not turn your TV or radio off
immediately and listen to the weather
updates
remember that paying attention may save
your life never use a charcoal grill
indoors imagine there's a blackout but
you're terribly hungry but hey there's a
solution why don't you just start a
charcoal grill in the middle of your
living room well I sincerely hope you'd
never entertain this idea because using
a charcoal grill indoors can end up in
tragedy while functioning the thing
emits lethal carbon monoxide gas that
takes people's lives discreetly and
quickly never touch concrete structures
the problem with concrete floors walls
and buildings is that they often have
metal bars or wires going through them
so if you don't want the lightning to
get to you avoid standing next to
concrete structures or leaning on them
never do anything that can lead to
injuries when a storm is raging outside
try not to get engaged in any risky
activities power failures mean delayed
ambulance service and crowded emergency
rooms severe weather is one of the worst
times to get hurt so don't take your
chances
never get locked in you probably know
that garage door openers tend to lock up
as soon as the power is off luckily
there's a special cord which releases
the door from the opener in case of an
emergency
figure out where this court is and show
its location to your family members this
way you'll be able to get inside the
garage and drive your car out if you
need to evacuate how about you do you
have any tips on staying safe and severe
weather that I haven't mentioned in the
video let me know down in the comments
if you learned something new today then
give this video a like and share with a
friend but hey don't go storming off
just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life